
> This page applies to Linux images only.


There are two ways to customize an existing image. You can either bundle an existing instance into a new image; or you can customize the image rootFS file.

h2. Bundling a running instance

The easiest way to bundle a new image from a running instance is to use euca-bundle-vol on an existing server instance. See Eucalyptus documentation:

* [http://open.eucalyptus.com/participate/wiki/creating-image-existing-vm-centos]
* [http://open.eucalyptus.com/participate/wiki/bundling-images]

You need to have the credentials available and the environment sourced, so extract your credentials zip and:


    source .euca/eucarc



Good practice is to mount an EBS volume 3x size of the instances rootfs to /ebs for example.

Here is an example for bundling:


    euca-bundle-vol -p RHEL53b32V7 -d /ebs -s 2048 --exclude /ebs/,/var/run/dhclient-eth0.pid,/root/.euca --no-inherit --kernel eki-0DFA1532 --ramdisk eri-65D11676



### "unexport" http_proxy:


    export http_proxy=

    euca-bundle-vol -p rhel5u5-64b-php -d /mnt/ -s 2048 --exclude /opt/,/mnt/,/var/run/dhclient-eth0.pid,/root/.euca



Of course you need to replace the parameters with your own and use size in 512 increments i.e. 2048 or 4096. If you are bundling a public image, make sure to exclude any personal details, such as shell history, ssh keys etc.

h2. Customizing existing image rootFS file

Making changes to existing image root filesystem file is fairly simple.

First source the eucarc of the cluster that you are working with


    . .euca/eucarc



Make sure that the client has enough free disk space. The {{/tmp}}directory is the default bundling path. You can change that with {{-d}} parameter in case your /tmp is too small.\\
{{rm -rf /tmp/<previous image files>}}

Make a new version of existing root file system file


    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# cp fedoraV7.10.x86-64.img fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img



Loop mount it to some directory, go there and make the needed modifications to the filesystem


    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# mount fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img new/ -o loop
    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# cd new/
    [root@example ]# vi etc/motd
	edit it say hello ...

    After done unmount the file
    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# umount new



Then you can bundle the new root fs to the cluster as usual.


    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# export EKI=<Euca Kernel Image ID of the image, which is the same as in the original>
    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# export ERI=<Euca Ramdisk Image ID of the image, which is the same as in the original>
    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]#



The Eucalyptus bundle defaults to the 64 bit architecture. in case you want to bundle 32 bit OS use the -r i386 switch to the bundle command. First, bundle the image.


    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# euca-bundle-image -i fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img --kernel $EKI --ramdisk $ERI
    Checking image
    Tarring image
    Encrypting image
    Splitting image...
    Part: fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.part.0
    ------Clip-----
    Part: fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.part.16
    Generating manifest /tmp/fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.manifest.xml



h2. Uploading and registering the new image

Once you have bundled the new image, you need to upload and register it to the cloud:

First upload the bundle into a Walrus bucket.


    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# euca-upload-bundle -b XX:Fedora10b64V11Image -m /tmp/fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.manifest.xml
    Checking bucket: XX:Fedora10b64V11Image
    Creating bucket: XX:Fedora10b64V11Image
    Uploading manifest file
    Uploading part: fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.part.0
    ----Clip-----
    Uploading part: fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.part.16
    Uploaded image as XX:Fedora10b64V11Image/fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.manifest.xml



Finally register the image.


    [root@example euca-fedora-10-x86_64]# euca-register -d 'Description of Image' XX:Fedora10b64V11Image/fedoraV11.10.x86-64.img.manifest.xml
    IMAGE   emi-F3F914C0


\\

